# Mechanical-Characterization-of-Adhesive-Tape
Mechanically characterized a standard, commercial adhesive tape using tensile tests, peel tests, and a 2D &amp; 3D method of optical analysis called Digital Image Correlation (DIC).

Abstract of project:

A commercial adhesive tape was mechanically characterized. Tensile tests were conducted on dog-bone shaped samples with a test area 10 mm wide and 50 mm long. The crosshead speed was 0.2 mm/s corresponding to an engineering strain rate of 0.4%/s. The Young’s modulus of the tape was 0.39 GPa and the ultimate tensile strength was 9.27 MPa. Digital image correlation (DIC), which is a method of 2D and 3D optical analysis, was used in order to analyze the displacement and contour of the tape during the tensile test. Each sample of tape was coated with a grey, speckled pattern using industrial paint to facilitate the analysis based on grey-scaled images. A charge coupled device (CCD) camera was used to record a video of the tensile test and was placed in front of the apparatus for the tensile test. The images were analyzed frame by frame using an image analysis software. In addition to the tensile tests, peel tests were conducted to determine the adhesive force relative to a glass surface. Tapes with widths of 5, 7.5 and 10 mm were attached to a glass slide held in a stand and pulled off at a 90 degree angle at a cross-head speed of 0.2 mm/s. The peel force was averaged to be 118, 140, and 261 mN respectively. Therefore, as the width increases, the peel force increases.

Attachment included in repository is .pdf file (last revised/updated 08-06-2020) of poster created for presentation delivered at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Pacific Division (AAAS-PD) Conference in 2014. 
